10, 000 and
more software
engineers updating
a repository of
over 2 billion
lines of code.
How does big
tech make big and
small changes to
their software?
In today's video,
we're going to find
out how thousands of
software engineers
can contribute
to a massive
repository fast and
at the same time.
Welcome back
to the channel.
If you're new here,
then my name is
Lewis, and I'm on a
mission to inspire
developers and
tech enthusiasts.
You just begin your
job as a junior
developer at one
of the largest
tech companies
in the world.
Your first job
outside fixing
bugs, create a
video player with
live reactions
on the time code.
Now is your time
to prove yourself.
You can prove that
you were meant
for this job.
From junior to
senior in 2 billion
lines of code.
A
monolithic
repository.
A common and
recently popular
way to store your
code in a single
repository, even if
multiple projects
are inside of it.
A single source
of truth, reusing
and resharing code
across applications.
Collaboration across
different teams is
the advantages of
this type of style.
The disadvantages?
Well...
Two billion lines of
code gets a version
control system
that's basically
used Universally,
but what happens
when you push it to
its absolute limits
like 1 billion
files terabytes
worth of content
Solutions like a
virtual file system
forget or Google's
proprietary Piper
less developers
clone Only the files
that are relevant to
what they're working
on It shows you the
entire repository
without it having
downloaded and
more efficiencies
that will make a
2 billion lines of
code repository feel
like a 10, 000 line
of code repository.
So once you clone
the repository,
everything is
a placeholder.
Okay, embed
video player in
standard webpage.
Okay, that shouldn't
be too hard.
So we have the front
end components we
have to build as
well as some API
endpoints with some
database migrations
we have to do.
Okay, let's open
up the code editor
and get started.
Let's see,
alright, videopage.
tsx is probably
where I should
put this.
Once the file is
loaded, it will
understand what
files it depends
on and then
start downloading
those as well.
That way, it's
just the code that
you're using that
needs to be on
your local machine.
Everything is
hosted on a gigantic
git repository
in the cloud that
you can then push
at a later time.
Whew, okay, that
wasn't too hard,
but I mean, it's
pretty simple.
Just embed the
video player.
I think we can
do much better.
And you know what?
Let's add a cool
little feature here.
All right,
let's submit a
pull request.
Oh, what?
Um, okay, whatever.
Just, we'll
submit anyway.
What on earth
happened here now?
Get works.
You branch off of
the main branch
to make changes to
your code, and then
merge that code in
at a later time.
The longer you work
on a branch separate
from main, the
bigger your feature
grows and the more
updated it becomes.
Eventually, you'll
need to rebase it
onto the updated
main to continue.
And most workflows
have this idea that
one branch is...
Equal to one
pull request.
But what happens
when you're working
on a large feature,
but require the main
branch with your
requested changes
in order to work on
the next feature?
Like, for example,
the video player
feature being
finished and then
deciding to work
on that timecode
feature that relies.
on that
video player.
And this is
where stacking
comes into play.
Stacking lets
you make little
changes instead of
single giant ones.
While waiting
for your video
feature review,
create a new branch
on the existing
one for parallel
timecode reactions.
These interdependent
branches form a
stack, which is
compact and easily
rebased onto main.
So you can develop
the timecode
reactions once
that's finished.
Depending on
your feature's
complexity, you can
add small branches
to your stack.
Even while
awaiting previous
branch reviews.
The advantages of
this is that you
don't rely on the
main branch being
the only source
of truth in your
development process.
You also don't have
to wait for long
periods of time
for something to be
added into the main
branch and you can
create small pieces
of code that can
easily be reviewed.
So if our stack
is five branches
tall and the first
branch is ready
to be merged into
the main branch.
It would merge
that branch and
then rebase the
branches that it
would depend on.
By this point,
you could work on
completely different
things and then this
allows the thousands
of developers to
continue working
on making the
software better
without waiting for
automated processes.
And large companies
like Google have
implemented this
with internal
tools that they
specifically
developed,
called critiques.
or Facebook
with Fabricator.
Tools made by
engineers to
improve developer
productivity.
And modern Git makes
it hard to implement
stacking on its own
because it wasn't
built to handle the
dependencies and
rebasing required
to maintain a
stacking workflow.
So modern tooling
based companies
like Graphite or
open source projects
like GHStack help
developers automate
this process.
Think about it,
when you have over
10, 000 engineers
submitting code,
having even 10
percent of them
blocked because of
code review can cost
millions of dollars.
And thanks to
today's sponsor,
Graphite, doing
code reviews is
much easier and
simpler, so you can
constantly ship at
a much faster rate.
Large tech companies
like Facebook or
Google have built
internal code review
tools that allow
them to change their
code base rapidly,
but others are
struggling to find
a tool that supports
the same workflow.
And Graphite
enables this
workflow entirely.
With the overarching
goal of increasing
developer velocity,
the CLI and
dashboard let
engineers take
advantage of the
stacking workflow
while syncing
all of your data
back to GitHub.
So, while you
technically
can stack with
traditional Git,
It's extremely
tedious and
impossible to
manage dependencies
manually at scale.
So the Graphite
CLI makes stacking
easy by abstracting
all the dependency
management away
from the user
and allowing you
to focus on just
committing your
code quickly.
The Graphite CLI
makes this process
easy by letting you
work with get while
simplifying trunk
based development
and manage your
dependencies that
enables stacking.
And just like in
your Git workflow,
you run a simple
command to create
a stack, navigate
your stack,
submitting your
stack, and more.
The Graphite
dashboard makes it
easy to stay in the
loop by alerting
you what pull
requests need your
actions, monitoring
status, and giving
a visual way to
group and navigate
between different
PRs in a stack.
So whether you're
an engineer in a
big team or just
developing solo,
Graphite's developer
productivity
tools and stacking
workflow will
help you ship
code faster.
If you're a junior
dev looking to
learn how big
companies work,
give Graphite a try.
Graphite's really
generous free
tier gives you
the ability to
use stacking
to help improve
your workflow to
see if it's just
right for you.
Some of the
fastest moving
tech companies are
using Graphite to
bring features to
users much faster.
Thanks again
to Graphite
for sponsoring
today's video.
Click the link in
the description
to ship your code
faster and help
support the channel.
When you merge code
in, what happens
when the main
source code changed
multiple times?
Merge conflicts
arise.
And this means
that the person
reviewing the code
has to choose which
code stays and
which code goes.
Like trying to
fit multiple
puzzle pieces
into one slot.
This leads to slower
release times,
decreased developer
productivity, and
potential bugs from
the wrong pieces
being chosen.
But we have 1600
pull requests
to go through.
How can this be
done efficiently?
One methodology
is called trunk
based development.
Similar to stacking
from earlier,
you create small
changes in your
code and submit
a pull request.
In an extremely fast
paced environment
with thousands of
software engineers,
Reviewing a small
amount of code is
easier than large
amounts of code.
It's also less
likely to conflict
with other code that
is being submitted.
The trunk refers to
the main branch in
this instance, where
you stay as close
as possible to it.
Once everything
merges in, it's
easier to rebase
changes to other
branches and
pull requests.
And for big
features.
Other methodologies
like feature
flagging lets you
work on a feature
really fast while
not having it
enabled at all
in production.
This makes it easy
for you to compare
code with pull
requests that are
only a day old and
can get inserted
into the source code
as fast as possible.
But of course, this
can be automated.
Even better.
Merge queues.
A queue of pull
requests lined
up by submitted
or priority and
automatically tested
on the main branch.
If it passes
all checks,
it is merged.
If it fails, then
usually sent back
to the developer
with how it failed.
Some developers
implement the merge
queue in different
ways, batching
multiple pull
requests together,
doing one by one.
Setting priority,
et cetera.
So with stacking
and trunk, thousands
of developers are
able to submit code
daily that billions
of users rely on
on a daily basis.
Awesome.
Your PR was approved
and merged into
the main branch.
How does the code
that you just
wrote, as well as
the code that 10,
000 other engineers
just wrote.
Get to your
computer.
The code that
developers write
is processed to be
optimized for the
machine to run it.
Two billion
lines of code.
How do you even get
started on that?
And how long would
it take when you
have to build this?
Almost daily.
This is where
continuous
integration
comes in.
Continuous
integration
often refers to
the build stage
of the software
release cycle.
This stage is
often defined
differently per
company depending
on what their
infrastructure,
their programming
language, and tech
stack look like.
Automated tests in
the pull requests
run to see if it
can be merged in,
but other tests
can be done when
it is merged in
as well to see if
it can work on a
production server.
Build tools like
Bazel automate
the process of
accepting new code
into a repository.
Bazel by Google
was designed for
this very issue.
Extremely large
code bases with
billions of lines
of code with
It's optimized for
large codebases by
caching previous
build results, so
it won't rebuild
the entire project
if just one tiny
part is modified.
It utilizes all
cores of a computer
to distribute the
build process while
also distributing
to many different
machines.
And this whole
process makes it
so that when you
ask for a review.
It builds, it tests,
it accepts, and runs
even more tests when
it's integrated into
the production code.
With codebases this
large, multiple
supercomputers
are working
day and night
testing, building,
and integrating
different versions
of its codebase.
When supercomputers
cost salaries per
hour to run, A 5
percent optimization
is a multi million
dollar success.
But after tests,
builds, and
integrations are
successful, how
do we deliver it?
Continuous delivery.
One wrong move
can mean millions
of dollars lost
in downtime.
We can't just
click update and
cross our fingers.
This calls for
continuous delivery.
10 minutes of
downtime could
result in millions
of dollars being
lost instantly.
So, we need to
make sure that this
doesn't ever happen.
Continuous delivery
comes into play.
The ideology we
should have is that
our infrastructure
that powers our
application should
be disposable
and reproducible.
Need 10 new servers?
No problem.
With Terraform, we
just describe what
we want in code.
Then, server's
delivered,
pre configured
to our exact
specifications.
Then you have
site reliability
engineers who
use monitoring
tools to predict
when catastrophic
events may occur
in the future.
When the code gets
to its destination,
we release changes
bit by bit.
Canary deployments
first, then onto
blue green once
things check out.
If issues arise,
we halt and roll
back immediately.
This makes it
as risk free
as possible.
Then all new changes
are released and our
users start to see
the new features or.
bug fixes.
For them, it
was just a nice
little upgrade.
For us, this was
a multi million
dollar operation
that took thousands
of engineers
hours and hours of
trial and error.
Congratulations,
your users have
tried out your
feature and already
have something to
complain about.
But you did it.
You deployed
a feature that
hundreds of millions
of users are going
to be using daily.
Before you can
celebrate, you
get another
feature request
and a bug fix.
So you open up your
code editor and get
right back to it.
Whenever you find
a silly little
bug, oftentimes
you think, why
can't you just
quickly fix this
small little bug?
When I was working
on small projects,
sometimes it was
as easy as just
deploying it within
the next hour.
But it's easy
to understand
why things take
so long to get
into production.
As soon as you open
up the code editor,
it has to stop in
a dozen locations
before it's even
deemed eligible to
go into production.
So, large tech
hires thousands of
software engineers
to help fix
these problems.
But then more
problems arise when
you have thousands
of software
engineers, which
creates a brand
new type of market
specifically for
software to help
developers scale
their software
like graphite.
If you like this
video, make sure
you check out
the video where I
show how discord
stores trillions
of messages.
Pretty insane.
And every software
has a different
solution.
In this video I took
a lot of inspiration
from how Google
structures their
massive code base
as well as how
Microsoft handles
the version control
of the Windows
operating system.